Vocational, Professional and Continuing Education
The Swiss system of vocational and professional education and training (VPET system) not only prepares young people for entry into the labour market, it also paves the way for the next generation of skilled workers and managers. Training is closely correlated with the needs of the labour market and formally anchored within the education system at both upper-secondary and tertiary level. Moreover, there are many different continuing education and training courses to sustain lifelong learning. These courses enable adults to gain new skills and reorient their careers if desired.
The State Secretariat for Education, Research and Innovation (SERI) works with the cantons, professional organisations and other partners to provide a comprehensive range of appealing training options that prepare people for the future.
Focus
Swiss VPET System – A Brief Guide
brochure
online platform
The new brochure explains the key features of the Swiss VPET system and provide readers to facts and statistics, which have been published on a new .
List of Vocational and Professional Qualifications
The List of Vocational and Professional Qualifications provides an overview of all professional activities for which training is provided under the Federal Act on Vocational and Professional Education and Training (VPETA).
Swiss education system
Vocational, professional and continuing education courses are designed for different skill levels and address the needs of different age groups.
Partnership dynamics within VPET system
The three main partners within the Swiss VPET system (namely the Confederation, the cantons and professional organisations) work together to maintain consistently high-quality training within the system.
Project support
Projects subsidised by the Confederation help to further develop and expand forward-looking structures within the Swiss VPET system.
Federal subsidies for professional education
The Confederation provides financial support to those who complete preparatory training for a federal examination to obtain a professional qualification.
Sustainable development
Suitable job profiles and training options are needed for sustainable development. The Swiss VPET system contributes to this endeavour.
Teachers, trainers and instructors
SERI is responsible for recognising training programmes for workplace trainers, branch course instructors and vocational school teachers.
VPET research
The knowledge gained from federally funded research in this field can be used to further develop and strategically manage the Swiss VPET system.
Explosives
SERI is responsible for the drafting and adaptation of guidelines and regulations on the handling and management of quality of explosives.
Contact
berufsbildung@sbfi.admin.ch
weiterbildung@sbfi.admin.ch