Contacts
The State Secretariat for Education, Research and Innovation (SERI) represents Switzerland in the EU Framework Programmes for Research and Innovation. It defines the strategic and operational measures for Switzerland's participation, promoting Switzerland's interests in the various programme committees of the European Commission.
This involves helping to shape the strategic direction of the initiatives and programmes and monitoring the evaluation procedures of the EU Framework Programmes. SERI also represents Switzerland in the European Research Area (ERA) and its associated bodies.
Specific enquiries regarding EU Framework Programmes
State Secretariat for Education, Research and Innovation (SERI)
collaborative projects
mono-beneficiary projects
SERI can answer specific enquiries regarding the EU Framework Programmes for Research and Innovation and the programme committees as well as questions about the direct federal funding for Horizon Europe (collaborative projects / ) and Horizon 2020 projects such as the Euratom research and training programme.
Project participants
media
Project participants and the  should contact the relevant body directly.
europrogram@sbfi.admin.ch
SERI, EU Framework Programmes
 
Tel. +41 58 463 50 50
Einsteinstrasse 2
CH-3003 Bern
Contact persons for the specific parts of the Horizon Package 2021–2027 and further programmes and initiatives
List of contact persons for the Horizon-Package: 
Contact persons for questions regarding SERI direct funding of Horizon 2020 projects
List of contact persons for Horizon 2020: 
For project participants
Euresearch
The Euresearch network is commissioned and funded by SERI to provide information on funding opportunities in Horizon Europe and the associated programmes and initiatives.
Euresearch provides information and advice to all interested researchers and innovators from the private and public sector in Switzerland regarding participation in EU Framework Programmes for Research and Innovation.
Euresearch
info@euresearch.ch
Euresearch

T +41 31 380 60 00
Belpstrasse 11
CH-3007 Bern
SERI implementation partners
Further information on Euresearch can be found at .
For the media
Media enquiries should be addressed to the Communications Office of the State Secretariat for Education, Research and Innovation (SERI).
medien@sbfi.admin.ch
SERI, Communication

Tel. +41 58 485 67 74
Einsteinstrasse 2
CH-3003 Bern
SERI implementation partners
Euresearch
Euresearch
 is a federally mandated and funded association. It is responsible for providing information and advice to all interested researchers and innovators from the private sector and public institutions in Switzerland regarding participation in EU Framework Programmes for Research and Innovation.
Network Office
Regional Offices
Euresearch is made up of the Network Office in Bern and the so-called . The Network Office is the operational centre of the association and the home of the National Contact Points (NCP). The , which are generally located at university campuses, are the first point of contact for all researchers and innovators in their respective regions.
SwissCore
SwissCore
Informal Group of RTD Liaison Offices
The Contact Office for European Research, Innovation and Education
(SwissCore) is Switzerland's Brussels-based liaison and information office for cooperation in education, research and innovation (ERI). It is funded by SERI, the Swiss National Science Foundation (SNSF) and Innosuisse. SwissCore is a member of the  (IGLO).
SwissCore links education and research institutions and stakeholders in Switzerland and elsewhere in Europe. It creates favourable conditions for Swiss stakeholders seeking to participate in EU ERI programmes. SwissCore monitors the latest local developments, provides interested parties with contacts and can offer researchers and innovators from Switzerland temporary working space (meeting rooms and offices).
swissuniversities
swissuniversities
Jobs and Funding database
information
swissuniversities is the common voice of the Swiss universities and promotes cooperation and coordination between the universities and the various types of higher education institutions. It coordinates the EURAXESS activities in Switzerland, which are funded by SERI. EURAXESS is a European initiative promoting mobility and career opportunities for researchers; it runs a Jobs and Funding database and publishes  on living and working in Switzerland.
Shopping cart