In general
General information and news in the field of telecommunications equipment.
New economic operators in e-commerce
From mid-July 2021 on, any online retailer wishing to sell radio equipment or electrical appliances to customers in Switzerland must have an intermediary located in Switzerland. Also, online marketplaces or platforms will be required to cooperate with OFCOM in relation to market surveillance.
Please do not disturb
Internet and stores abroad are full of interesting offers for wireless devices (drones, remote controlled toys, telephones,...). All are using frequencies to communicate with each other or with their base. If they operate on frequencies which are not assigned to them, they can cause disturbances. Before a purchase, watch OFCOM's video, you will find the points you should keep in mind.
Users of radiocommunications equipment better informed
If you place radiocommunications equipment which does not use frequencies harmonised at the European level on the market, you must ensure that the user has the necessary information on the conditions of use. From 9 August, 2018, manufacturers must specify on the packaging the countries for which a restriction on use exists. The nature of the restriction must be included in the instructions.
Warning, interfering DECT equipment on the rise!
Interference on UMTS mobile telephone networks (Universal Mobile Telecommunications System) has been increasing over recent months. Such interference is generated by DECT cordless phones (Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications) purchased outside Europe – for example in the US, South America, Canada or Asia – or on the internet. OFCOM has not excluded the possibility of billing those responsible for importing and operating such cordless phones for the cost of identifying and rectifying the source of interference.
Beware of non-compliant remote controlled toys
Cars, robots, helicopters or even animals: numerous remote controlled toys are available on the Swiss market. Unfortunately, frequently their wireless remote control does not comply with the requirements. OFCOM, which is responsible for market surveillance, has taken binding measures against market players, but also wishes to make purchasers and users of such toys more aware of this.
Specialist staff

				



Last modification 01.06.2021