Batteries
The M-ERA.NET Call 2024 was launched on 5 March 2024. More than 30 funding agencies participate with an indicative budget of more than 35 million €.
Call Schedule:
The aim is to fund ambitious transnational RTD projects addressing materials research and innovation supporting the European Green Deal and the United Nations's Sustainable Development Goals (SDG).
Switzerland is participating in this call with energy research programmes of the Swiss Federal Office of Energy SFOE, details here:
M-ERA.NET Call 2024
Battery storage is playing an increasingly important role, both at the stationary level (renewable energy) and in the field of e-mobility. In view of the huge importance of storage technology in the context of the expansion of renewable energy capacities in order to reduce levels of greenhouse gas emissions, major efforts to develop new batteries are being made throughout the world, and rapid progress is being achieved. Today the battery cell market is dominated by Asian manufacturers (with a share of more than 90 %), but initiatives have also recently been launched in Europe (e.g. European Battery Alliance) aimed at speeding up expertise and manufacture here. Manufacturing processes, the utilised materials and safe disposal are decisive factors for the ecological footprint of batteries, and safety and performance aspects are also associated with fundamental material-related issues. Swiss players are focusing on a variety of areas of battery research, including low temperature, high temperature (salt) and redox flow batteries. Other areas of activity include system development and the integration of battery systems in mobile and stationary applications. The SFOE is able to provide subsidiary support for research activities in this field via a small programme focusing specifically on batteries in conjunction with its promotion options in the framework of pilot and demonstration projects.
Current research priorities 2021‒2024
Materials research and electrochemistry
System development
System integration and characterisation
Documents
Reports
Links
iBAT Association
M-ERA.NET
M-ERA.NET Call 2024 was launched on 5 March 2024
Specialist staff

				



Last modification 06.03.2024