Award of mobile telephony frequencies
Planned award in 2027
Preparation for the new award of mobile phone licences
The Federal Communications Commission (ComCom) has instructed the Federal Office of Communications (OFCOM) to prepare for awarding the mobile radio frequencies that will become available in 2029. In the interests of competition and transparency, ComCom is planning a public tender for these frequencies, probably in 2026. Frequency bands will be allocated by means of an auction if there is a shortage of frequencies.
Public consultation regarding the allocation of mobile phone frequencies available from 2029
The Federal Communications Commission (ComCom) has instructed the Federal Office of Communications (OFCOM) to conduct a public consultation on the allocation of frequencies available from 2029 for the provision of telecommunication services for third parties. The results have been published in a report.
Award in 2019
Mobile radio frequencies for 5G awarded in Switzerland
The Federal Communications Commission (ComCom) has successfully awarded new mobile radio frequencies. All three current operators, Salt, Sunrise and Swisscom, could acquire a wide range of new frequencies in an auction.
Consultation regarding the draft tender documents concerning the award
The Federal Communications Commission (ComCom) has instructed the Federal Office of Communications (OFCOM) to prepare the award of new mobile telephony frequencies. Barring unforeseen circumstances, ComCom will launch the public invitation to tender concerning these frequencies during the current year. The frequencies will be awarded within the framework of an auction. With this in mind, interested telecommunications operators are invited to take part in this consultation on the initial draft of the tender documents. The consultation will run until 23 February 2018.
Award in 2012
Auction of mobile phone frequencies in 2012
The companies Orange, Sunrise and Swisscom have been allocated mobile telephony frequencies in the auction which took place in early 2012. The allocation concerned on the one hand frequencies which were already free or which would soon become free and on the other hand all those granted to operators in the past; the Communications Commission (ComCom) had launched the procedure to guarantee the future of mobile telephony provision of high quality and at the lowest possible prices.
Last modification 17.09.2024