Non-recurrent remuneration for large-scale photovoltaic systems
With the amendments to the Energy Act adopted on 30 September 2022 (urgent measures for the short-term provision of a secure electricity supply in winter, solar offensive), the Swiss Parliament facilitates the approval of large-scale photovoltaic plants and establishes a subsidy for these with a non-recurrent remuneration of up to 60% of the investment costs. These facilitations apply until these new large-scale photovoltaic plants permit a total annual production of a maximum of 2 TWh throughout Switzerland. The amendments to the Energy Act are limited until 2025.
The plants must achieve a minimum annual production of 10 GWh and a specific production in the winter half-year (1 October - 31 March) of 500 kWh per 1 kW of installed capacity.
If these requirements are met, the non-recurrent remuneration is set at the level of the uncovered costs, but it amounts to a maximum of 60% of the eligible investment costs. To benefit from the subsidy, at least 10% of the expected production of the entire planned plant or 10 GWh must be fed into the grid by the end of 2025. The deadline for full commissioning of the in-stallations is the end of 2030. For those projects that do not meet these crite-ria, the normal non-recurrent remuneration for photovoltaic installations is available.
The application for a non-recurrent remuneration in accordance with Art. 71a can be submitted to the SFOE as soon as a legally binding construction permit has been issued for the project.
Documents
Application documents
Instructions, guidelines and fact sheets
Reports
Notes on the ordinances
Links
Solarenergie im Programm EnergieSchweiz
Regulations concerning network connection of independent producers
Solar energy
Federal Electricity Commission ElCom
Media
Press releases in German
Law
Energiegesetz vom 30. September 2016 (EnG), Art. 71a
Energieförderungsverordnung vom 1. November 2017 (EnFV)
Specialist staff

				



Last modification 29.03.2023