DETEC's regulatory authority and extra-parliamentary committees
Federal Communications Commission ComCom
The Federal Communications Commission (ComCom) is the licensing and regulatory body for the telecommunications sector. ComCom is comprised of seven members who are all appointed by the Federal Council. The commission is independent from federal agencies and reaches its own decisions.
Swiss Federal Electricity Commission ElCom
ElCom is Switzerland's independent regulatory authority in the electricity sector. It is responsible for monitoring compliance with the Swiss Federal Electricity Act and the Swiss Federal Energy Act, taking all necessary related decisions and pronouncing rulings where required. ElCom monitors electricity prices and rules as a judicial authority on disputes relating to network access and payment of cost-covering feed-in of electricity produced from renewable energy. It also monitors electricity supply security and regulates issues relating to international electricity transmission and trading.
Federal Postal Services Commission PostCom
Federal Postal Services Commission (PostCom) is a technically independent body responsible for supervising the Swiss postal market. It sees to it that basic postal services are efficient, of good quality and affordable to all.
Rail Transport Commission RailCom
The Rail Transport Commission (RailCom) is responsible for handling disputes regarding access to the railway network and the calculation of fees for the use of infrastructure. In its supervisory capacity, RailCom monitors compliance with the principles of non-discrimination and transparency. RailCom was established as part of the 1999 railways reform, which mainly sought to introduce free access to the railway network.
Independent Complaints Authority for Radio and Television ICA
The Independent Complaints Authority for Radio and Television (ICA) handles complaints relating to radio and television programmes by the SRG and private broadcasters. The ICA seeks to determine possible breaches of the law in editorial broadcasts or unlawful refusal of the right to appear on a programme. However, the ombudsman service must be contacted to review the matter first, before a formal complaint can be filed with the ICA.
Swiss Transportation Safety Investigation Board STSB
The Swiss Transportation Safety Investigation Board (STSB) is the State authority of the Swiss Confederation which has a mandate to investigate accidents and dangerous incidents involving trains, aircraft, inland navigation ships, and seagoing vessels. The aim of this activity is to determine not only the direct causes of such events but also the more deep-seated reasons and other risks associated with them. This sole objective of this form of investigation is to acquire insights by means of which future accidents and hazardous situations can be prevented and which result in improved safety. However, the results of such a safety investigation are not intended to clarify questions of blame and liability.
Links
Federal State Calendar: Regulatory authority (in French)