SWEET: Integration of renewables
The guiding theme of SWEET Call 1-2020 is “Integration of renewables into a sustainable and resilient Swiss energy system”. This theme has been broken down into the following research challenges:
SWEET Leitthema SWEET - Bild 1 e
Renewables must be integrated into the Swiss energy system in order to ensure that demand is met; storage is available where and when needed; energy conversion is efficient, climate-neutral and net-negative. Furthermore, they must be integrated in such a way as to be of optimum value to the Swiss economy and society and also form part of the overall European energy system.
The SWEET Call 1-2020 ran from 25 June to 12 October 2020. The 13 applications submitted were assessed by external experts and for each research challenge the top ranked consortium was selected:
CROSS
CROSS
 (CooRdination Of Scenarios for SWEET) is a joint activity of the four consortia DeCarbCH, EDGE, PATHFNDR and SURE, supported by the SWEET programme and coordinated by ETH Zurich.
The objective of CROSS is to ensure that scenario analyses are compared in a meaningful manner and that credible conclusions are drawn. The main tasks of CROSS are to harmonise assumptions and scenarios, to document them together with the results and to make them publicly available.
CoSi
Call 1-2022
CROSS completed its activities at the beginning of 2023 and is continuing as CROSS+ as part of the CoSi consortium from the .
Under “Documents” you can find an overview of the planned activities of the consortia. Under “Links”, blogs including introduction videos of the consortia are linked.
Documents
Overview of the consortia
Guideline, Questions and Answers
Links
Links to Aramis
DeCarbCH
EDGE
PATHFNDR
SURE
Blogs on introduction videos of the consortia
Energeia Blog: Sicher in die Energiezukunft – SURE rückt Versorgungssicherheit ins Zentrum
Energeia Blog: SWEET-Konsortium PATHFNDR: Auf dem Weg zu einem nachhaltigen Energiesystem
Energeia Blog: EDGE fokussiert auf erneuerbare, dezentrale Energiequellen
Energeia Blog: DeCarbCH: Was will das SWEET-Konsortium erreichen?
Other blogs
Energeia Blog: CROSSDat - An open energy data plat-form for Switzerland
Energeia Blog: SWEET-Ausschreibung: Zuschlag für vier Forschungs-Teams
Energeia Blog: 13 Gesuche für SWEET-Fördergelder eingegangen
Energeia Blog: Die erste SWEET-Ausschreibung wurde lanciert
Media
The first consortia start the new energy research programme SWEET
First call of the new energy research programme SWEET launched
Last modification 30.01.2025