Organisation of the Federal Chancellery
The Federal Chancellery with its staff of some 340 people has been headed by Federal Chancellor Viktor Rossi since January 2024.
Federal Chancellor Sector
Political Rights Section
The  is responsible for ensuring that political rights are enacted, for preparing for federal ballots and for coordinating the introduction of electronic voting by the cantons.
Communications and Strategy Sector
Communications Section
The  at the Federal Chancellery coordinates Federal Council communication with the media, public, cantons and Parliament.
Communication Support Section
The section advises and supports the Federal Administration in all matters relating to communication and creates a wide range of communication products.
Strategic Management Support Section
The  has the task of drafting the Federal Council's planning and activity reports and supports the departments in crisis management.
Presidential Services Unit
The , which has been part of the Federal Chancellery since 2015, supports the president’s department in carrying out the additional tasks arising in the presidential year. In particular, the  provides advice on matters of diplomacy and communication.
Federal Council Sector
Federal Council Affairs Section
The  deals with government core business. Each year it handles more than 2,500 items of business that the departments and the Federal Chancellery present to the Federal Council. It plans the Federal Council meetings, draws up the agenda, runs the joint reports procedure and issues the decisions made by the Federal Council.
Legal Section
The  provides support to the Federal Council Affairs Section and is responsible for legislation on administrative organisation, the consultation procedure and publications.
Official Publications Centre (OPC)
The Official Publications Centre plays a key role in the Federal Administration, helping the federal offices to prepare texts for publication in the Federal Gazette or the Official Compilation, and keeping law texts in the Classified Compilation up to date.
Central Language Services, German Section
The German Section in the Federal Chancellery Central Language Services ensures the clarity of official texts and contributes to the success of multilingual official communication.
Central Language Services French Section
The French Section in the Central Language Services helps draft laws, translates and revises texts. It provides services to Parliament, the Federal Council, the federal departments and the Federal Chancellery.
Central Language Services, Italian Division
 The Italian Division of the Central Language Services is the oldest language service at the Federal Chancellery. It comprises the Legislation and Language Section, based in Bern, and the Translation and Editing Section, based in Bellinzona.
Central Language Services, Terminology Section
The Terminology Section in the Federal Chancellery’s Central Language Services provides relevant and up-to-date terminology in the four national languages and in English for the whole of the Federal Administration.
Resource Sector
Digital Services Section
The  provides IT and telecommunications support in the Federal Chancellery.
HR, Finance, Controlling Section
The  forms part of the resources hub in Internal Services and provides vital support to all sections in the Federal Chancellery.
Business Administration, Security, Infrastructure Section
The section provides service support for records and process management and logistics in the Federal Chancellery and Federal Administration.
Digital Transformation and ICT Steering Sector
DTI Sector
As of the beginning of 2021, the Federal Chancellery is responsible for digital transformation and ICT steering. The task of the  is to ensure the cross-departmental coordination of projects, resources and administrative services to advance the digital transformation process within the Federal Administration.
Federal Chancellor's staff office
Federal Chancellor's staff office
The  provides support in organisational and administrative matters, and in preparing Federal Council meetings and the follow-up work to the meetings.
Federal Data Protection and Information Commissioner
The  has two areas of responsibility: the Federal Act on Data Protection and the Federal Act on Freedom of Information in the Administration.
Further information
Documents
Organigram FCh 01.10.2024 (PDF, 105 kB, 30.09.2024)
Links
Rechtliche Grundlagen