E-Voting
In Switzerland, e-voting means voting online via the internet. E-voting is part of the Swiss e-government strategy, which entails close collaboration between the Confederation and the cantons. Since 2004, 15 cantons have offered internet voting to a limited part of their electorate in over 300 trials. The Confederation and cantons have followed the principle of ‘security before speed’. In Switzerland, e-voting is only permitted if strict requirements under federal law are met.
Current situation
On 26 June 2019, the Federal Council commissioned the Federal Chancellery to work with the cantons to redesign the trial phase of e-voting. The redesign of the trial phase focuses on the following four objectives:
final report on the redesign and relaunch of e-voting trials
Federal legislation
In 2020, the Federal Chancellery and the cantons have produced a joint final report on the redesign and relaunch of e-voting trials. In the first stage of the redesign, the legislation on e-voting has been revised. The partially revised Ordinance on Political Rights (PoRO) and the totally revised Federal Chancellery Ordinance on Electronic Voting (OEV) came into force on 1 July 2022 (see ).
media release of 3 March 2023
media release of 16 August 2023
Trials with e-voting
The Federal Council granted the cantons of Basel-Stadt, St Gallen and Thurgau basic licences for trials with online voting in federal votes in 2023-2025 and in the National Council elections on 22 October 2023 (see media release of 3 March 2023 and  media release of 16 August 2023). The basic licences are valid for a limited section of the electorate (see ).
media release of 22 November 2023
Trials
with e-voting
At its meeting on 22 November 2023, the Federal Council also granted the canton of Graubünden a basic licence for trials with online voting in 2024-2026 (see media release of 22 November 2023). The basic licence is valid for conducting online voting with a limited part of the electorate (see Trials ).
Catalogue of measures by the Confederation and cantons
The cantons are using Swiss Post's e-voting system with complete verifiability. The system and its operation have been further developed and examined in an independent examination commissioned by the Federal Chancellery. In the process and as part of the continuous improvement process, existing need for action is identified and set out in a joint catalogue of measures by the Confederation and the participating cantons in consultation with Swiss Post (see ). The Federal Chancellery will monitor the implementation of measures as part of the future authorisation procedures.
Media releases
Federal Council authorises use of online voting in the canton of Graubünden
At its meeting on 22 November 2023, the Federal Council granted the canton of Graubünden a basic licence to trial online voting in federal votes. The basic licence is valid for conducting online voting for a limited section of the electorate up to and including the popular vote held on 8 March 2026. At the same time, the Federal Chancellery granted the canton authorisation to hold the vote on 3 March 2024 online.
Federal Council authorises use of online voting in 2023 National Council elections
At its meeting on 16 August, the Federal Council granted the cantons of Basel-Stadt, St Gallen and Thurgau basic licences to trial online voting (e-voting) in the National Council elections on 22 October. The basic licences are valid for a limited section of the electorate.
Federal Council approves resumption of online voting trials
At its meeting on 3 March 2023, the Federal Council granted the cantons of Basel-Stadt, St Gallen and Thurgau basic licences for resuming trials with online voting (e-voting) in federal votes. The basic licences are valid for conducting online voting for a limited part of the electorate up to and including the vote on 18 May 2025. At the same time, the Federal Chancellery has granted its authorisation to hold the popular vote on 18 June 2023 online.
Press conference 3 March 2023
E-voting: New legislation comes into force
New legislation will apply from 1 July for the first stage of the redesign of e-voting trials. At its meeting on 25 May 2022, the Federal Council enacted the partially revised Ordinance on Political Rights (PoRO). The Federal Council also took note of the fact that the totally revised Federal Chancellery Ordinance on Electronic Voting (OEV) comes into force on the same date. This means cantons can once again apply to the Federal Council to offer e-voting on a trial basis.
E-voting: Results of the first independent examination available
The e-voting system currently being developed by Swiss Post has been significantly improved. However, further developments, some of them substantial, are still required. This is shown in the first independent examination reports of the experts commissioned by the Federal Chancellery. The results of the examination will help determine the further development of the system.
All media releases
Secure e-voting in Switzerland
The video of the Federal Chancellery explains how e-voting is made secure in Switzerland.