Press releases
30.04.2025
Support for the media: Federal Council welcomes measures that can be implemented quickly
Independent and diversified media play a key role in a democratic society. The Federal Council therefore welcomes the targeted increase in support for electronic media as proposed by the Council of States Transport and Telecommunications Committee. At its meeting on 30 April, the Federal Council adopted its opinion on the committee report in which it requests Parliament to approve the Committee's draft bill.
16.04.2025
Consultation on the partial revision of the Postal Services Ordinance
In future, Swiss Post is to be given more flexibility in the home delivery of letters, parcels and daily newspapers. Universal service should also take greater account of the high level of digitalisation among the public and businesses and so be expanded to include digital offerings. The Federal Council put a corresponding revision of the Postal Services Ordinance out to consultation on 16 April 2025.
04.04.2025
DETEC awards TV licence in Biel/Bienne to Canal B
On 3 April 2025, the Federal Department of the Environment, Transport, Energy and Communications (DETEC) has again awarded the licence for regional television in the Biel/Bienne coverage area to Canal B.
26.03.2025
Switzerland signs Council of Europe Convention on Artificial Intelligence
On 27 March Federal Councillor Albert Rösti will sign the Council of Europe Convention on Artificial Intelligence and Human Rights, Democracy and the Rule of Law in Strasbourg on Switzerland’s behalf. By signing the agreement, Switzerland is reaffirming its commitment to the responsible use of AI technologies in accordance with fundamental rights.
14.03.2025
Consultation launched on programme to expand high-speed internet throughout Switzerland
The Federal Council’s gigabit strategy aims to provide access to high-speed internet throughout Switzerland. A temporary funding programme will drive forward the expansion of broadband via fibre optic and wireless infrastructure. At its meeting on 14 March 2025, the Federal Council opened the consultation on the new Broadband Promotion Act.
17.02.2025
Publication of report on EU data policy monitoring
The digital policy activities of the EU (European Union) can also impact Switzerland under certain circumstances. Swiss companies nevertheless do not face significant risks regarding the EU’s access to the single market at this time, according to a report published by the Federal Administration on 17 February 2025 analysing the impact of EU digital policy on Switzerland.
12.02.2025
AI regulation: Federal Council to ratify Council of Europe Convention
Switzerland intends to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on Artificial Intelligence (AI) and to make the necessary amendments to Swiss law. Work will also continue on the regulation of AI in specific sectors such as healthcare and transport. The Federal Council spoke out in favour of this approach at its meeting on 12 February.
11.02.2025
Federal Councillor Albert Rösti at the Artificial Intelligence Action Summit in Paris
At the Artificial Intelligence Action Summit in Paris on 10 and 11 February, Federal Councillor Albert Rösti highlighted the opportunities that AI offers to society and the economy. In particular, he stressed the need to adopt an inclusive approach in the global debate on AI. Switzerland has also expressed an interest in hosting the next AI Action Summit. He also signed two memorandums of understanding with French Transport Minister Philippe Tabarot aimed at developing cross-border rail traffic between Switzerland and France.
29.01.2025
Negotiating mandate for recognition of electronic signatures
Electronic signatures on documents should be recognised in Switzerland and in the European Union (EU). At its meeting on 29 January 2025, the Federal Council instructed the Federal Department of the Environment, Transport, Energy and Communications (DETEC) to draw up a corresponding mandate for negotiating with the EU, in collaboration with the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs (FDFA).
15.01.2025
Swiss data ecosystem: Contact point becomes operational
At its meeting on 15 January, the Federal Council was informed that the Swiss data ecosystem contact point has commenced work. The contact point supports public authorities, businesses and organisations in establishing trusted data spaces. Its groundwork contributes to better exploiting the potential of data in Switzerland, thus creating additional value for society, the economy and research.
06.01.2025
Network security and cybersecurity: OFCOM strengthens its commitment
Since 1 January 2025, the Federal Office of Communications (OFCOM) has two units specialising in cybersecurity and the security of telecommunications networks. The Market Access and Cybersecurity Section (MC) is responsible in particular for verifying that radiocommunications equipment complies with privacy and personal data protection requirements. The aim of the Networks and Services Security Section (SND) is to maintain and improve the security and availability of telecommunications networks and services.
13.12.2024
Increase in delivery discounts for newspapers and magazines in 2025
In 2025, local and regional daily and weekly publications benefitting from indirect support for print media will receive a discount of 28 centimes per copy distributed by Swiss Post, 3 centimes more than in 2024. Titles published by associations and foundations will benefit from a support of 22 centimes per copy, an increase of 2 centimes compared to this year. The Federal Council set these amounts at its meeting on 13 December 2024.
26.09.2024
Matthias Hürlimann appointed head of OFCOM's Telecom Services and Post Division
Federal Councillor Albert Rösti has appointed Matthias Hürlimann as vice-director of the Federal Office of Communications and head of the Telecom Services and Post Division. The 51-year-old lawyer will take up his new position on 1 November 2024.
20.09.2024
World Radiocommunication Conference: Ratification of the Final Acts
At its meeting on 20 September 2024, the Federal Council ratified the Final Acts of the World Radiocommunication Conference 2023 (WRC-23). This lays down the formal framework for the future use of frequencies in Switzerland. It guarantees that the information and communication sector will have access to the frequencies it needs at national level. The country's military security interests are also protected.
16.09.2024
SERAFE AG to remain the collection agency for the radio and television fee
SERAFE AG will continue to collect the household radio and television fee for the federal government after 2025. On 14 September 2024, the Federal Department of the Environment, Transport, Energy and Communications (DETEC) awarded SERAFE AG the mandate for the period 2026 to 2034 following an open tender process. Their bid offered the best price-performance ratio.
11.09.2024
Digital Switzerland advisory committee: Exchange on the regulation of artificial intelligence
At the Digital Switzerland advisory board meeting on 11 September 2024, participants discussed possible approaches to regulating artificial intelligence (AI). They agreed that the opportunities offered by AI should be exploited while seeking to minimise the risks for society. Federal Councillor Albert Rösti chaired the meeting, which was also attended by Federal Chancellor Viktor Rossi.
04.09.2024
Indirect support for print media: Federal Council rejects fixed-term increase in contributions
At its meeting on 4 September 2024, the Federal Council adopted its opinion on the report of the National Council Transport and Telecommunications Committee (TTC-N) on the parliamentary initiative aimed at increasing indirect financial support to assure an independent press (22.423). Out of media policy and financial policy considerations, it is requesting Parliament not to approve the introduction of the committee's proposal. Should Parliament nevertheless approve the introduction of the bill, the Federal Council proposes a smaller increase in press subsidies and a subsequent return to the current level.
09.07.2024
Preparation for the next award of mobile telephony licences
The Federal Communications Commission (ComCom) has instructed the Federal Office of Communications (OFCOM) to prepare for awarding the mobile radio frequencies that will become available in 2029. In the interests of competition and transparency, ComCom is planning a public tender for these frequencies, probably in 2026. Frequency bands will be allocated by means of an auction if there is a shortage of frequencies.
19.06.2024
Federal Council rejects SRG SSR initiative and proposes reducing fee to CHF 300 instead
SRG SSR requires sufficient financial resources to be able to provide equivalent journalistic services in all language regions. The Federal Council therefore rejects the federal popular initiative '200 francs is enough! (SRG SSR Initiative)'. It approved the dispatch on this issue on 19 June 2024. However, the Federal Council wants to ease the financial burden on households and businesses. It has therefore decided to gradually reduce the radio and television licence fee for households to CHF 300 per year by 2029. The Federal Council will not grant SRG SSR a new licence until the vote on the SRG SSR initiative has been held. It is therefore extending the current SRG SSR licence until the end of 2028.
14.06.2024
Postal service: Modernisation and financial stabilisation of universal services
Universal postal and payment transaction services are to be expanded to include digital offerings and placed on a financially viable footing. At its meeting on 14 June 2024, the Federal Council defined the outlines of a draft consultation on the revision of the Postal Services Ordinance.
Specialist staff