CO2 emission regulations for new vehicles
CO2 emission regulations for new vehicles apply in Switzerland just as they do in the EU. As of 1 January 2025, under the WLTP, the average level of emissions from passenger cars registered in Switzerland for the first time may not exceed 93.6 grams of CO2 per kilometre, while emissions from vans and light articulated vehicles (known collectively as light commercial vehicles or LCVs) registered for the first time may emit a maximum of 153.9 grams of CO2 per kilometre. The 2025 target values have been tightened compared to previous years.
In addition, CO2 target values came into force for lorries and articulated vehicles (heavy-duty vehicles, or HDVs) for the first time on 1 January 2025. Importers of new HDVs must reduce average emissions by 15% against the EU regulation’s reference values (emissions of the new 2019/2020 fleet).
Each importer’s vehicle fleet has to meet an individual target based on these values. If the target is exceeded, the importer must pay a penalty.
Small and large importers
The CO2 regulations apply to all importers of new passenger cars, LCVs and HDVs, although a differentiation is made between small and large importers. A large importer is one who registers at least 50 passenger cars or at least six LCVs or two HDVs for the first time in Switzerland each year. All HDV importers and large importers of passenger cars and LCVs must be registered with the SFOE. Importers may join forces to form emissions pools in order to attain the minimum number of vehicles to qualify as large importers and so collectively meet the specified target level. Emissions pools have the same rights and obligations as large importers.
Private individuals who import a new car directly are classified as small importers. They have the option of registering their vehicle via a large importer. In this way, they can reduce any penalties or benefit from a bonus that applies to privately imported efficient vehicles.
Registering as a large importer or emissions pool
www.uvek.egov.swiss
To register as a large importer or emissions pool, go to the DETEC eGovernment portal at .
Vehicle attestation
FEDRO KDI portal for vehicle imports
Small importers of passenger cars and LCVs must pay any carbon penalty due before registering vehicles in Switzerland. To start this process, the necessary vehicle data must first be recorded in digital form with the Federal Roads Office (FEDRO). This can be done via the .
The same obligations and procedures apply to small and large importers of HDVs as to large importers of passenger cars and LCVs.
Documents
Industry information
Brochures and reports
Links
CO2 exchange (in German)
FEDRO website (in German)
Antrag auf Bescheinigung bezüglich Art. 23 der Verordnung über die Reduktion der CO2-Emissionen für PW
Antrag auf Bescheinigung bezüglich Art. 23 der Verordnung über die Reduktion der CO2-Emissionen für LNF
Cars
Calculation of penalties for passenger cars
Tool for calculating the penalty for small importers of cars
Questions & Answers
Key data relating to alternative drives (in German)
Energy label for cars
Light commercial and light articulated vehicles
Calculation of penalties LCV
Tool for calculating the penalty for small importers LCV
Questions & Answers (in German)
Media
Federal Council approves new CO2 Ordinance
Law
Article 74 of the Swiss Federal Constitution - Protection of the environment
Federal Act of 23 December 2011 on the Reduction of CO2 Emissions (CO2 Act) (in German)
Ordinance on the Reduction of CO2 Emissions (CO2 Ordinance)
Ordinance of 19 June 1995 on technical requirements on road vehicles (in German)
Ordinance of 19 June 1995 on the homologation of road vehicles (in German)
Liechtensteinisches Landesgesetzblatt 814.065 Gesetz vom 11. November 2013 über die Reduktion der CO2-Emissionen
Regulation (EC) No 443/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009 setting emission performance standards for new passenger cars as part of the Community’s integrated approach to reduce CO2 emissions from light-duty vehicle
Specialist staff

				



Last modification 25.03.2025