In Focus
Regulation artificial Intelligence
Artificial Intelligence
Artificial intelligence (AI) has developed rapidly in recent years. Generative AI applications offer great opportunities for Switzerland, but also confront society with new legal challenges. On 12 February 2025, the Federal Council presented its plans for regulating AI.
Use of wireless radio equipment
If you are organising or planning to participate in an event such as a concert or sporting competition, it's important to remember that you need a licence for the use of certain wireless communication equipment there. You must apply to the Federal Office of Communications OFCOM for a licence to operate professional mobile radio (PMR) equipment (for voice or data), wireless cameras and satellite news gathering (SNG) equipment.
Exemption from the radio and television fee
Households that have no means of receiving radio or television programmes can also apply this year to opt out of paying the radio and television fee. The possibility to opt out ends on 31 December 2023.
The Federal Office of Communications
The Federal Office of Communications (OFCOM) is active in the media, telecommunications & postal services and information society sectors in Switzerland. The Office ensures a stable and progressive communications infrastructure and lays the foundations for a strong Swiss media center.
Please do not disturb
OFCOM’s video will show you the points you should keep in mind when purchasing wireless devices (e.g. drones, radio equipment).
Roaming
Using your mobile phone abroad for calls, to send and receive SMS/MMS or to access the internet could cost you dearly.
Adaptive antennas
In this OFCOM explanatory video, you can find out how adaptive antennas improve reception for mobile telephony users.
You can access a range of
OFCOM services via
DETEC's eGovernment
portal.
In order to prevent interference, the use of the frequency spectrum, with or without licences, is being regulated.
Necessary information regarding maritime radiocommunication examinations and beacons can be found on this page.
Keep up to date with the latest news concerning OFCOM and its areas of activity through its newsletter and social media.
This map shows the sites of all transmitters being operated to ensure broadcast services and telecommunications services.
Drones and model aircraft
Drones are remote-controlled aircraft. Legally, they are equivalent to model aircraft and are considered radio equipment.
Press Releases
26.03.2025
Switzerland signs Council of Europe Convention on Artificial Intelligence
14.03.2025
Consultation launched on programme to expand high-speed internet throughout Switzerland
17.02.2025
Publication of report on EU data policy monitoring
12.02.2025
AI regulation: Federal Council to ratify Council of Europe Convention
X OFCOM
ofcomCHen
Other OFCOM sites
eofcom
nic.swiss
dot.swiss
High Broadband
Stories from everyday digital life
Footer
Federal Office of Communications OFCOM
Footer
Digital Switzerland and internet
Telecommunication
Electronic media
Frequencies and antennas
Equipments and installations
OFCOM
Stay informed