Specialised agencies
Safety Office
Safety is of key importance to DETEC. The task of the Safety Office is to ensure safety across a wide range of areas. It supports the further development of safety in land, sea and air transport, in the use, transport and distribution of energy, and for communications infrastructures.
Reporting Office for Just Culture in Civil Aviation ROJCA
The Reporting Office for Just Culture in Civil Aviation aims to strengthen Just Culture through the protection of the information source of an occurrence reporting in Swiss Civil Aviation. The Reporting Office is positioned in the DETEC. Individuals can inform the Reporting Office of alleged infringements regarding the protection principles by national authorities or their organisation.
The Nuclear Safety Commission
The NSC advises the Federal Council, the Federal Department of the Environment, Transport, Energy and Communications (DETEC) and the Federal Nuclear Safety Inspectorate (FNSI) on matters relating to the safety of nuclear facilities.
Swiss Federal Nuclear Safety Inspectorate ENSI
The Swiss Federal Nuclear Safety Inspectorate (ENSI) is responsible for ensuring that Swiss nuclear power plants do not pose safety risks.
Federal Pipelines Inspectorate ERI
The Federal Pipelines Inspectorate (ERI) supervises the planning, construction and operation of pipeline systems that carry liquid or gaseous fuel. The ERI seeks to ensure and actively promote human safety and environmental protection. In doing so, safety takes precedence over economic considerations.
Federal Inspectorate for Heavy Current Installations ESTI
The Federal Inspectorate for Heavy Current Installations (ESTI) is responsible for monitoring both weak and heavy current installations. It sees to it that installations are planned, built and maintained in a safe and environmentally friendly manner. As the certifying body, ESTI ensures that only safe electrical products are sold on the market and that household installations are up to standard.
Links
Federal State Calendar: Specialised agencies (in French)