Driving Urban Transitions (DUT)
The Driving Urban Transitions (DUT) Partnership steps up the game to tackle urban challenges. Through research and innovation (R&I), it enables local authorities and municipalities, business, and citizens to translate global strategies into local action. DUT develops the skills and tools to make urban change happen and boosts the urgently needed urban transformation towards a sustainable future with enhanced quality of life in cities.
DUT is realised as a European partnership of more than 60 partners from 27 countries, involving national and regional policy makers, funders and urban-related policy agencies to invest in urban R&I and strengthen a European innovation eco-system for urban transitions. Building upon the JPI Urban Europe achievements, DUT aims to create a strong community around urban transitions and to establish a well-known research and innovation platform that will help cities become more sustainable, inclusive and livable. DUT is addressing urban development in its complexity, with a close link to the European mission of 100 climate-neutral and smart cities.
Transition Pathways
Our future relies on tackling complex grand challenges here and now, many of which must be addressed within cities and by urban communities. The DUT partnership therefore aims to address these challenges with an integrated approach to offer decision makers in municipalities, companies and society the means to act and enable the necessary urban transformations. In order to support cities along their specific strategies, the Partnership focuses on three critical urban sectors and their interrelationships.
The Positive Energy Districts transition pathway (PED) aims to optimise the local energy system through energy efficiency, flexibility and local energy generation from renewables in actions towards the (urban) energy transition and climate-neutrality and mainstreaming these actions in urban planning processes.
PED development strongly builds on the cooperation of key stakeholder groups like public administrations, real estate developers and utilities. PED aims at supporting urban energy transitions through innovative solutions for the planning, large-scale implementation, and replication of PEDs with the mission to bring forward at least 100 PEDs by 2025. Furthermore, it will contribute to the Mission on Climate-Neutral and Smart Cities by building a portfolio of PED-related solutions towards climate-neutrality.
The 15-Minute City transition pathway focusses on rethinking the existing mobility system and urban morphology to encourage sustainable mobility choices, redistribute urban space and reorganise our daily activities so to make our cities more climate neutral, livable and inclusive.
The concept of the 15-Minute City is based on the idea that city dwellers should be able to cover the vast majority of their daily needs within a 15-minute radius, by walking and cycling, while connecting to further districts and travelling larger distances by other forms of sustainable transport. The 15minC mission is to facilitate analysis, elaboration, experimenting and testing of innovations for 15-minute cities in co-creative settings, bringing these together in a 15-minute City innovation portfolio of 50+ experiences and practices, recognising different urban contexts and focusing on transferability.
The Circular Urban Economies Transition Pathway (CUE) wants to foster the design of urban places characterized by regenerative urbanism, by which we mean liveable, inclusive, and green communities and neighbourhoods that are sustained by circular urban economies and resource flows.
Participating Swiss organizations
The Swiss Federal Office of Energy (SFOE), Innosuisse, the Swiss Science National Foundation (SNSF) as well as the Federal of Civil Aviation (FOCA) joined DUT. Swiss based applicants can join research consortia on equal terms with applicants from EU Member States and other Associated Partners.
DUT Call 2023
The second DUT call has been launched on 1st September. The SFOE participates in the PED und 15mC transition pathways.
The SFOE supports succesful Swiss partners with up to 4 million Euro through its Pilot- and Demonstration Programme (P+D). The specific conditions of the DUT call as well as the P+D Programme apply. Please consider the documents below and on the DUT website.
Schedule
Documents
Links
Driving Urban Transitions (DUT)
Pilot- und Demonstrationsprogramm
Innosuisse
Swiss National Science Foundation
Last modification 24.10.2023