Transparency and involvement of civil society
In order to take into account the concerns of stakeholders and to ensure a continuous dialogue with them, various instruments are regularly used. Civil society is regularly informed and consulted on current topics in the context of negotiations and implementation of economic agreements. Relevant information as well as possible problems and proposals are presented and discussed in various forums.
Information on the state and prospects of ongoing negotiations, the implementation of concluded agreements and the possibility to take position (various agreements).
Exchange of information on current developments and challenges in world trade, information on the state and prospects of ongoing negotiations, the implementation of concluded agreements and the possibility to take position (WTO, FTAs, specific agreements and other export-related topics).
Information on the state and prospects of ongoing negotiations, the implementation of concluded agreements and the possibility to take position (WTO, FTAs and specific agreements).
Commission de la politique économique
Members: see 
Regular consultation of the central social partner organizations and representatives of the administration on questions related to social sustainability and bilateral labour dialogues (ILO and its conventions).
Commission tripartite pour les affaires de l'OIT (admin.ch)
Members: see 
EFTA model texts are consulted with the EFTA Advisory Bodies, information on the state and perspectives of ongoing negotiations, implementation of concluded agreements and possibility to take position (FTAs).
Advisory Bodies | European Free Trade Association
Members: see 
Information for representatives of civil society, the economy, the scientific community, the party secretariats and the cantons (CoC) on the state and prospects of ongoing negotiations, the implementation of concluded agreements and the possibility to take position (WTO, FTA and specific agreements).
Informal roundtables/discussion panels (Chatham House Rule) with representatives of the scientific community, the economy, the civil society, and the administration on current topics in the field of trade and sustainable development (WTO, FTA, economic cooperation and development). The first roundtable took place in June 2021 on the topic of trade, climate change and the SDGs.
Links
Transparency and involvement of civil society
Last modification 21.02.2024