Strategy and charter
OFCOM's strategy is based on its vision, which specifies the general orientation of its actions, and its mission, which derives from the basic mandate which the Federal Council entrusts to OFCOM. As for the charter, this documents the values that OFCOM's colleagues apply in their everyday work.
The Federal Office of Communications (OFCOM) is active in the media, telecommunications & postal services and information society sectors in Switzerland. The Office ensures a stable and progressive communications infrastructure and lays the foundations for a strong Swiss media center. The Office prepares the decisions of the Swiss government (the Federal Council), the Swiss Federal Department of the Environment, Transport, Energy and Communications (DETEC) and the Swiss Federal Communications Commission (ComCom). OFCOM is also developing international activities.
The legal framework
The Federal Office of Communications (OFCOM) is part of the Federal Department of the Environment, Transport, Energy and Communications (DETEC) and performs tasks both for the DETEC and for the Federal Communications Commission (ComCom). OFCOM's mandate derives from the Telecommunications Act (TCA), the  Federal Act on Radio and Television (RTVA) and the Postal Services Act.
Vision
As the competence center for telecommunications, the media and the postal services within the Federal Department of the Environment, Transport, and Communications (DETEC, we actively contribute to the smooth operation and the successful development of a democratic digital society.
Mission
In relation to the media:
OFCOM guarantees the general conditions for strengthening a diverse media system which contributes to democratic opinion-forming and decision-making, taking into account the constantly changing usage habits as well as technical and economic transformation processes.
 
OFCOM puts into place the conditions necessary for ensuring a public identity-building service at the national, regional-linguistic and local levels in the area of the electronic media, and creates a basis for contemporary  supporting mechanisms for the media.
In relation to telecommunications and postal services
OFCOM ensures the framework conditions in order to guarantee effective competition and a universal service adapted to needs, so that secure and modern communication infrastructures as well as varied, advantageous and competitive telecommunications and postal services (including public service in the field of payment traffic) can be made available to the population and the economy.
 
In the field of telecommunications, OFCOM also ensures an adequate allocation of radiocommunication frequencies and addressing resources,  guarantees undisturbed radio communications, regulates market access for telecommunications facilities and electrical appliances, promotes the efficient use of frequencies and the implementation of technological innovations, and supports the evolution of the information society by identifying risks and opportunities.
Values
In relation to the fulfilment of its mission, OFCOM bases itself on the following values:
Acceptance of responsibility
As OFCOM employees, we accept responsibility for our performance and results. We apply ourselves critically and constructively, both within and beyond our narrow area of responsibility. As a result we work better and avoid mistakes. Externally, we argue loyally for decisions.
Future-oriented
We recognise social, political, technical and economic developments at an early stage. From this we derive any need for action or change and indicate possible actions to the relevant decision-makers.
Employee development
All OFCOM employees have a responsibility to develop themselves. OFCOM promotes the development of its employees and supports targeted measures which contribute to ensuring that their tasks can continue to be fulfilled successfully in the future.
Respect
For us, respect means more than politeness when dealing with other people. We take the concerns of our counterparts seriously and take time to listen and explain our positions and decisions fully and comprehensibly.
Cost consciousness
We use our resources so that they have the maximum effect on the fulfilment of our mission. To this end, we always ask ourselves whether an objective can be achieved with fewer resources. In our actions, we also consider the financial consequences on third parties.
Interdisciplinarity
We work together across technical specialisms, professional groups and the Office. This requires openness towards other people, approaches and perceptions, but also an interest in the content of relevant specialist areas outside our own area of activity.
Specialist staff

				



Last modification 29.04.2022