Winners of the 2010 Watt d'Or awards
The winners of the 2010 Watt d'Or awards have been chosen! This year's trophies were presented to the winners on the occasion of the Swiss Federal Office of Energy's New Year's event that was held on 7 January 2010 in Bern. The following projects were chosen to receive the various awards (all of which are of equal value):
“Society” category
“Gordola – sustainable water supply”, Azienda Acqua Potabile Comunale, Gordola (canton of Ticino)
Saving water means saving energy. Instead of pumping several million Swiss francs into an overdimensioned project for a new drinking water supply network, the town of Gordola in the canton of Ticino decided to simply repair the leaks in the existing supply network and reduce the peak consumption levels. The amount of electricity thus saved would be enough to supply 200 households for an entire year.
“Energy technologies” categories
“Electricity production using a gas pressure reduction generator”, Gasverbund Mittelland AG, Arlesheim
An innovative type of power plant is currently being constructed in Oberbuchsiten (canton of Solothurn). It is being equipped with a gas pressure reduction generator that utilises the energy that is produced when gas is transferred from the high-pressure pipeline to the low-pressure network for supply to consumers. In this way, the plant in Oberbuchsiten will use this low-CO2 energy source, which otherwise simply evaporates, to produce electricity for 1,200 households.
“Renewable energies” categories
“SwissFarmerPower”, SwissFarmerPower Inwil AG, Lucerne
Switzerland's largest biogas facility is located in Inwil (canton of Lucerne). Since 2008 it has been converting biogenic waste to biogas, which can be used as a CO2-neutral motor fuel for gas-powered vehicles. A total of 72 farmers are involved in the operation of this plant, which cost 22 million Swiss francs to construct.
“Mobility” category
“Pneumatic hybrid motor”, Institute for Dynamic Systems and Control, Federal Institute of Technology Zurich
The team headed by Professor Lino Guzzella at the Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich has developed the world's first low-cost pneumatic hybrid motor. It only costs 20 percent more than conventional motors, but consumes up to 30 percent less energy.
“Buildings” category
“Transformation of Feldbergstrasse 4 & 6 apartment buildings into an energy surplus house”, Viridén + Partner AG, Zurich
At first glance, the apartment house located at Feldbergstrasse 4 & 6 in Basel does not give the impression of being far ahead of its time. But these comprehensively modernised and joined buildings dating from 1896 will set a new standard for the future in that they produce more energy than they consume for heating throughout the year.
Documents
Watt d'Or 2010
Media
Press releases in German
Last modification 07.01.2010