Electricity
Electricity is essential in today’s society at both the private and the business level. With a proportion of around 25 percent of overall energy demand, electricity is of central importance in the energy sector. Despite constant efficiency gains, electricity demand will continue to increase in the future due to the increasing decarbonisation in the transport (e.g. e-mobility) and heating (e.g. heat pumps) sectors.
The Electricity research programme covers strategically relevant research aspects across the entire electricity supply chain, from electricity production to transmission and distribution and consumption. By combining technological innovation, digital transformation and international networking, it lays the foundation for the sustainable and efficient further development of the electricity system and electricity use.
Research priorities
Wherever possible and appropriate, the participation of partners from business and industry must be sought in order to ensure the relevance of research for technological development and the needs of society. An appropriate share of at least 20 to 30 percent of own and/or third-party funds is expected.
National research funding is provided in response to calls for proposals on specific topics. Unfortunately, no submissions are possible outside of calls for proposals at present.
The next call for proposals is expected to take place at the beginning of 2026.
It is not possible to sponsor conferences.
Documents
Specialised articles Electricity
Links
IEA Energy Technology Network initiatives:
IEA 4E TCP – Energy Efficient End-use Equipment
IEA 4E TCP PECTA – Power Electronic Conversion Technology
IEA 4E TCP EMSA – Electric Motor Systems
IEA 4E TCP EDNA – Electronic Devices & Networks
IEA 4E TCP SSL – Solid State Lighting
IEA ISGAN TCP – International Smart Grids Action Network
IEA ECES TCP – Energy Storage
IEA Users TCP – User-centered Energy Systems
European initiatives:
ERA-Net SES – Smart Energy Systems
ETIP SNET – Smart Networks for Energy Transition
Law
Energy labels and efficiency requirements
Specialist staff

				



Last modification 26.03.2025