Winners of the 2009 Watt d'Or awards
The winners of the 2009 Watt d'Or awards have been chosen! This year's trophies were presented to the winners on the occasion of the Swiss Federal Office of Energy's New Year's event that was held on 8 January 2009 in Bern. The following projects were chosen to receive the various awards (all of which are of equal value):
“Society” category
Rhine Valley energy initiative. Verein St. Galler Rheintal, Rebstein (canton of St. Gall)Twelve municipalities in the St. Gall Rhine Valley have accomplished something that is usually difficult for even just two municipalities to achieve: they have drawn up a set of common guidelines, specifically a programme to promote energy efficiency in buildings. The Rhine Valley energy initiative is a model for the whole country.
“Energy technologies” categories
Biogas from wood. Paul Scherrer Institute, Villigen (canton of Aargau) and Vienna University of Technology (Austria)As a source of energy, wood can be used for more than just heating purposes. In Güssing, Austria, a joint Swiss/Austrian project has constructed the world's first pilot facility for converting wood into synthetic gas.
“Renewable energies” categories
Mont d'Ottan wind power plant. Rhônéole SA, Vernayaz (canton of Valais)Rhônéole SA has received the 2009 Watt d'Or award for its Mont d'Ottan wind power plant in Martigny, which was handed over for operation in May 2008. This is Switzerland's largest wind power plant.
“Energy-efficient mobility” category
“Flyer” e-bikes in Swiss resorts. Biketec AG, Kirchberg (canton of Bern)
Biketec AG as made a breakthrough onto the market with its energy-efficient electric “Flyer” bicycles, and it is now opening up new opportunities in Swiss resorts: its cleverly conceived rental system is linked to various local services and enables even unathletic visitors to reach new heights.
“Buildings” category
Eulachhof 'zero-energy' housing development. Allreal Generalunternehmung AG, Zurich
Living in style, saving energy and protecting the climate – all at an affordable price: this is what the visionary Eulachhof housing development on the former Sulzer site in Winterthur has to offer. The first “zero-energy” housing development in Switzerland.
Special award
Metalwork company Ernst Schweizer AG, Metallbau in Hedingen (canton of Zurich)The jury once again decided to award a special prize this year, which went to metalwork company Ernst Schweizer AG, Metallbau in Hedingen (canton of Zurich). This award recognises the company's long-term and successful commitment to energy-efficient and environment-friendly production methods and products, as well as its exemplary treatment of personnel and business partners.
Documents
Watt d'Or 2009
Media
Press releases in German
Last modification 08.01.2009