Digital Switzerland
The Digital Switzerland Strategy sets the guidelines for Switzerland’s digital transformation. It is binding for the Federal Administration. For other stakeholders such as the cantons, communes, business, science and civil society, it serves as an orientation with the aim of making the best possible use of the opportunities of digital transformation for everyone.
Digitalisation is increasingly shaping the way we live. With its stable political system and its great capacity for innovation, Switzerland is well placed to transpose its successful model of an open and modern Switzerland with its high quality of life into the digital future.
Against this backdrop, the Digital Switzerland Strategy serves as a framework for government action and shows where and how the authorities and actors from business, academia, civil society and politics must work together to shape the transformation process in the common interest.
The Digital Switzerland Division is responsible for the ongoing development and implementation of the Digital Switzerland Strategy.
Strategy digital.swiss
Action plan
The activities to implement the strategy are published in the form of an action plan. This action plan is updated annually and sets out the strategy’s key measures.
Action plan digital.swiss
Digital Switzerland Advisory Committee
Digitalisation and ICT
Meetings of the Digital Switzerland Advisory Committee are attended by members of the Federal Council and representatives from business, academia, politics, the authorities and civil society who address issues relating to digital transformation. The meetings take place several times a year in different configurations, but are chaired by a member of the Federal Council or the Federal Chancellor. They complement the work of the Federal Council  Committee. The meetings are organised by the Federal Chancellery’s Digital Transformation and ICT Steering Sector (DTI).
Advisory Board meetings 2025
The Digital Switzerland Advisory Board deals with the current focus themes and meets on the following dates in 2025:
Previous Advisory Board meetings
Available in German, French or Italian.
Further Information
Archive
Digital Switzerland Strategy 2024 (PDF, 165 kB, 11.12.2024)
Monitoring Report on Digital Switzerland Strategy 2024 (PDF, 688 kB, 11.12.2024)
Digital Switzerland Strategy 2023 (PDF, 237 kB, 04.12.2023)
Monitoring Report on Digital Switzerland Strategy 2023 (PDF, 282 kB, 04.12.2023)
Digital Switzerland Strategy 2020 (PDF, 472 kB, 16.12.2022)
Media
Federal Council adopts Digital Switzerland Strategy 2025
Digital sovereignty: President Cassis wants to strengthen Switzerland's capacity to act in the digital space
Specialist staff